Let's talk about subqueries.
So subqueries allow you to
do a query within a query.
It's query ception.
Let's say you wanted to query all of the
comments left by someone named Maynard.
I don't know,
maybe that seems useful to you.
We don't actually have
that available to us, and
there's no really useful
way to join on that.
So what we can do is we can do
a query to find Maynard's user ID and
then use that user ID to query for
all the comments.
So we can say SELECT comment ID.
Let's just make this on multiple lines.
Comment_id, user_id and our comment,
LEFT(comment, 20) FROM comments,
WHERE, and then here you're gonna say,
user_id = and
then I'm gonna put parentheses.
This is way of me signaling to SQL I'm
gonna do a query within a query.
And I'm gonna start writing
another query in here.
SELECT user_id FROM users WHERE
full_name = Maynard Simonich.
So then I'm going to close that sub query.
And then I'm gonna put a semicolon to
signal the end of the query altogether.
So now you can see here, this will go and
this query gets run first.
It's gonna go out to users.
It's going to find this person's user id,
it's going to return that.
And then it's gonna be used in this
query to find all of their comments.
So that's all you need to know here.
If you need to do a sub query
to go get something first,
just put parentheses in here.
You can nest them as much as you want.
So you can have queries inside
of queries inside of queries.
That's what how you do subqueries in SQL.
Let's get into group by.
So now we're getting into what we were
using the aggregation pipeline for
in MongoDB.
SQL kind of just has a built
into the language, so
there's no differentiation between
the two, but let's talk about group by.
So I'm gonna say,
SELECT boards.board_name.
Yeah, so let's talk about first,
what we're gonna do with group by.
We wanna find the top ten
most posted to boards.
So we wanna go query the board's table,
find all the boards, and then we want go
look in the comments tables and figure out
which one has the most amount of comments.
So we're gonna use group by to figure
out that kind of aggregate number
of comments per board and
then we're gonna do a group by with that.
So we're gonna want to see our friend
COUNT(*) again to just count how
many of each one that we have, and then
we'll just call that AS comment_count.
SELECT boards.board_name.
COUNT(*) as comment_count FROM comments.
Here we could say INNER JOIN on or
I'm just gonna say NATURAL INNER JOIN,
cuz I know this is gonna work.
Boards, and they're gonna say GROUP BY so
we're gonna tell it how to
aggregate things together.
Boards.board_name, you could do this
probably on id as well, it should work.
Then we're gonna say ORDER BY, this is
how you do sorting, right, ORDER BY.
Comment_count, DESCENDING,
cuz we want the top 10 and
then we're gonna say LIMIT 10,
cuz we only want 10 results back.
And then you can see, again these
board names are auto generated so
I don't really know what is which one.
The cloned and the budgetary
management boards have 18 comments.
These ones all have 16
through 13, right?
And if you wanted to see ascending,
you can see here this one has four.
But we have a problem here, so
think about this for a second.
This query that we ran right here,
what happens if a board has zero comments?
And actually, let me tell you, there is
a board in here that has zero comments,
cuz I went and made sure of it,
cuz I wanted you to discover this problem.
Because we're doing INNER JOIN,
what happens when there's no match?
It gets left out of the data set, right?
So what do we do?
What do we want to join?
Yeah, go ahead.
Hold on,
I think I have you muted One more time.
>> You want to left join?
>> Close, we wanna right join on this
particular problem, which is super weird.
And I know I said you almost
never use right joins.
And then I just turned around and slap you
with a right join, but that's what I did.
But I like where your head's at.
That's exactly the kind of thinking
that you want to go through.
So awesome.
So we're gonna do a natural right join,
cuz we wanna include the boards, right, so
left would be on comments,
right would be on board.
And that's where we want to get
the thing that could be left out.
So now we have fire, and
it says it has one comment but
we know that's not true, right?
It doesn't have one comment,
it has zero comments.
Why is that?
Well, that's a problem because
it's including something,
it's including that board
with nothing on it.
And it's counting that in our Count(*).
So this Count(*),
it's called an aggregation function,
aggregation pipeline.
Hopefully, you're seeing
some parallels here.
It's just counting all of the lines.
And there's a line being included from
that one, which is not the right thing.
So what do we actually want to count?
We don't want to count any row.
We want to count rows that
actually are really comments, or
we can just count comment ids,
right, cuz if it has a comment id,
it's definitely a real thing in comments.
So I'm gonna say comment_id.
Lo and behold, this fireboard
must be about the fire festival.
Doesn't have any comments, right?
But I wanted to show you how to kind of
work through some mental gymnastics of SQL
bugs, cuz this is the kind of stuff that
you kind of have to think about when
you're dealing with SQL.
You have to be like, what am I including?
What am I not including?
Where's the data going and
where and why, right?
Cuz it would have been super easy,
one, for
us to just exclude this board altogether.
And then it would have been super easy for
us to say, there's one comment in this,
despite that there's actually
zero comments in this.
Any questions before we move on?
The question is when is limit evaluated,
right?
So if I do a join, does a limit get
calculated first or is it join?
Am I gonna be cutting things
off before I'm using them?
There is a particular order of
operations with SQL that I do not
remember off the top my head and
I have to look every single time.
This one I think, I'm pretty sure,
limit is the last thing, so
it does everything first and then it just
returns to you the first ten rows of that.
I'm about 95% on that one.
Do check my math.
But if you just search for SQL order
of operations, it'll give you a pretty
complete breakdown of, here's the complete
order of how things are evaluated.